hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is my review of the msi ge62 QE
they're naming systems a little bit
confusing but the short of it is this
they have a P series which stands for
prestige and a G series which is their
gaming line and within each line they
have a bunch of different screen sizes
and configurations so they have a whole
bunch of like numbers and letters that
can get a little confusing but the one
we have here P 62 QE alright so I've had
this for like a week and a half I've
been using it as my daily driver for
basically everything I've played a lot
of games on it I've done very little
work out of it because of it but I've
edited two full videos on it including
the one you're watching right now so
here's my review it comes in a grey box
you open it up notebook is sitting in a
foam bracket it comes with an AC adapter
a bunch of pamphlets and msi stickers
the top surface of the notebook is
aluminum and it gives it a surprisingly
premium look on the exterior it's
brushed aluminum and it doesn't have any
issues with fingerprints or smudges on
the bottom we have five rubber feet that
are pretty grippy and they help to prop
up the notebook for good air intake so
the two main air intakes are up here and
down here you can see the front-facing
speakers now there's a sticker that says
the warranty is void if the stickers are
removed so I've removed all the screws
but that last screw is underneath that
sticker so it kills me that I can't open
it up but if you're willing to void your
warranty it looks like you can easily
upgrade your RAM and your hard drive and
even add a second M to SATA drive if you
want okay going around the notebook on
the right side we have a DVD Drive a USB
3 port a deep SD slot and the power
connection on the left side we have a
lock slot a killer 2200 Ethernet port
three more USB ports an HDMI port a mini
DisplayPort
and lastly dedicated mic and headphone
jacks on the front here you can see how
the speaker's face the user there are
actually a total of four speakers like
each one of these grills has two
speakers behind it but we'll talk about
them in a bit on the back you can see
the exhaust vents of the system now the
build quality of the chassis is pretty
good I mean there's a lot of plastic
but it feels well made and nothing feels
flimsy the screen has a little bit of
flex even though there's aluminum on the
top but there's not much and it never
felt like an issue
okay the unit I'm reviewing has four
core Intel Broadwell i7 that's running
at 2.7 gigahertz a 15.6 inch 1080p
screen 12 gigs of ram gtx 960m with 2
gigs of video ram a 1 terabyte hard
drive a DVD drive all for around $1,100
us the screen is an IPS panel with a
resonate e it's not a touchscreen but
it's pretty good matte finish colors are
great viewing angles are good but it's
not like a really bright screen the
color accuracy is also pretty good it's
picking up at 96% srgb and 74%
Adobe RGB there's a hardware key on the
notebook that you can press to cycle
between different color profiles for
like games or movies it's kind of cool
but I didn't use it very much I just
found that the default srgb profile was
the nicest to look at and just out of
curiosity I tried both video connections
and you can push out 4k from either of
the ports the keyboard has triplet Keys
they're comfortable to type on but the
arrow keys take some getting used to
because they're positioned a little
differently from most notebooks and it's
a keyboard with a number-pad again which
shifts the entire keyboard over to the
left so you're going to get some
accidental keystrokes at first like I
legitimately lost it Street Fighter
because I kept pressing the wrong keys I
mean I'm not good but I swear it was the
keys all right it's got three stages of
backlighting and overall once you get
used to the positioning of the keys it's
an enjoyable keyboard the trackpad has
also shifted over to the left of the
notebook it's a pretty decent trackpad I
mean it's not as good as an apple
trackpad but I like it and I find it so
weird that a middle priced notebook like
this ends up having one of the better
Windows traffic pads
my only complaint are the buttons the
physical buttons which are cool but they
feel kind of cheap and they click really
loud the speakers are really good and
again I'm surprised that a mid price
notebook like this has such good quality
speakers good mids good highs very good
base for a notebook speakers and there
isn't much distortion at max volume
here's what they said
the system idles a little bit loud like
it's not completely silent the hard
drive and the fan both have a little
noise so it comes in just under 30
decibels when you play some light weight
games like dota 2 or counter-strike the
fans kick in and it comes in around 40
decibels but when you play some heavier
games or if you want to hit this
hardware button for maximum cooling it
hits 45 decibels it's pretty loud but it
doesn't stay at max speed for very long
I took some thermals with the Fleur 1
and cooling is really good on this
machine it runs like 5 or 6 degrees
cooler than a MacBook Pro and it's only
a little bit louder
okay let's talk performance the hard
drive in here is a 7200 rpm Drive you
get about a hundred megabytes read and
write but it just feels really sluggish
I did some video editing and I had to
use an external SSD because that one
terabyte drive was too slow it edits
1080p footage easily and even though I
couldn't see my footage in 4k without an
external monitor it handled it well so
if you're looking for a notebook for
video editing this is not bad it's just
that I would totally pop off that bottom
lid void the warranty and just get some
faster storage in there gaming is pretty
good on this guy it's running a gtx 960m
so light or moderately demanding games
like counter-strike dota 2
here's of the storm these all run pretty
well at 1080p on high settings so like
you're getting a comfortable 60 frames
per second but more demanding games like
rust or GTA 5 or witcher 3 you're just
gonna have to fiddle with settings and
drop down your quality to get better
frame rates like if you really want to
play demanding games this isn't an ideal
computer you're going to want a gtx 970
or a 980 for that frame rates when it's
running just on battery are poor like
we're talking half the frame eights
you'd normally get when it's plugged in
so no amount of fiddling in the geforce
app or windows is going to fix that okay
i need to talk about battery life so
this thing has a built-in DVD drive
which is pretty cool I mean in 2015 it's
almost retro hipster cool to have a DVD
drive built into your notebook they're
pretty rare these days but if you need
one if you're like workflow or if you
have a lot of disk based games if you
need one it's kind of cool to have one
built in the issue though is that when
you have a disc drive inside your
notebook you end up taking away the
space that's normally
allotted for your battery and as a
consequence it has a very small battery
so the average 15.6 inch notebook it has
a battery of like 62 maybe 90 watt hours
this one has a forty 1.4 watt hour
battery it's pretty small so just the
numbers out there just so you know when
you're playing games just playing games
on battery life 45 minutes it's pretty
short if you're watching movies off the
dr two and a half hours and if you're
just doing regular work like light web
browsing or just chilling out on the
computer you're going to get about three
hours the screen and about 3/4
brightness so I mean battery life is not
a strong point but if you need a DVD
drive this is kind of cool ok recap the
PE 60 it's got pretty good build quality
with its aluminum surface and plastic
chassis it has a 1080p screen which is
solid good colors reasonably bright and
a matte finish the keyboard is
comfortable has a numeric pad so it
shifted over and you'll have to get used
to it the trackpad is good the buttons
are less good and on the inside if you
peel off that warranty sticker
it has a broad wall i7 that's fast very
well cooled a GTX 960 that isn't the
fastest mobile card but it's very
capable for playing everything aside
from the most demanding games right now
12 gigs of ram which can theoretically
be upgraded to 16 gigs if you want to
peel off that sticker a one terabyte
hard drive that I would like to replace
with an SSD a hipster DVD Drive 4
front-facing speakers that sound pretty
good and a disappointingly small battery
ok so some closing thoughts here I
really like this notebook I think they
did a great job in terms of its
technical components I think they did a
good job in terms of build quality
especially for the price now two things
kind of bugged me the first is that
battery I wish they'd given us a bigger
battery in the first place and just
gotten rid of that DVD drive or to have
a removable DVD drive that you kind of
stick in a secondary battery into I mean
that's very 1990s but it's been done
before that'd be kind of cool to bring
it back the second thing is I mean this
affects me not everybody is that sticker
on the bottom that says not to remove it
if you want to keep your warranty and
that bugs me because I mean the hard
drive that's in there that should be out
of there and it's very easy and
inexpensive to swap that out if you
don't care about warranty but if you do
I mean it will deter you from upgrading
your system that's
the review I hope you guys liked it if
you did give me some thumbs and if you
loved it give me some subs it's been
nice and I'll see you guys next time